My goal for today's video is to provide
you with no BS extremely simple agentic
AI explanation. I'm going to show you
some real agentic AI systems along with
the code. So please stay with me till
the end. We will start with a real life
example of my own company. We have 55
plus people and for these people we want
to build an HR assistant which can
answer simple questions on policies such
as how many vacation days do they have
per year or what is the policy on seek
leave and for this all this policy data
you have it available in PDF files you
can build a retrieval augmented
generation chatboard which can simply
pull the information from this PDF and
answer these questions.
Now is this an agentic AI? The answer is
no. Anthropic has this document on
building effective agents and they
categorize these AI applications into
two categories workflows and agents.
This rack based chatboard is actually a
workflow. It is not agentic. Let's
advance this chatboard a bit more and
let's add a support where you can ask
question. Okay, how many leaves do I
have left? Specifically, you know, as an
employee, how many leaves do I have
left? You can also apply for the leaves
right here. Now, see this is important.
This is not just question and answer.
You are taking actions. So, here you
obviously have access to your policy
data via PDF. But on top of that you
integrated LLM with HR management system
through their APIs where you can not
only pull the leaves for a given
employee you can also apply for a leave.
Okay. So here it will detect your login.
It will identify whether you are moan
Sharma or Abdul Kadir whoever you you
are and it will take the necessary
action. Do we call this agentic AI?
Well, the answer is again no. This is
tool augmented chatboard. We want to
advance this further and give it a goal
such as prepare for Sara's maternity
leave. Now, this requires multi-step
reasoning and multi-turn planning.
Another question, onboard the new intern
joining next Monday. Well, this again
requires multi-step planning. Okay. So,
let's call this a broader goal. It is
not a simple task. It's a complex task
and it requires a multi-step reasoning
first of all and then you come up with a
plan that I need to schedule a welcome
meeting with this intern and you will
actually send the meeting invite via
Outlook or whatever uh calendar system
that you're using. then you might want
to create interns profile in HR
management system. So now you have
integration uh through your HR
management system APIs where it can go
and create interns profile at every step
there will be some generation also right
because you let's say if you want to
schedule a meeting you need to write
some description on what this meeting is
about and all of that you can generate
using this LLM that you have then you
want to create a ticket in IT help desk
where you get Wi-Fi credential s the
email, Slack access, etc. for that
particular intern. Again, here you will
have uh LLM's role being played as well
as you have integration with multiple
tools such as Slack, Outlook, u your
Wi-Fi system and so on. And then you
want to order a laptop. So you have some
kind of you know inventory management
system or some kind of uh IT support
desk where you can issue ID card order
laptop and so on. This is agentic AI
folks. It requires multi-step reasoning
and you have to do multi-step planning
and in each of these steps LLMs will be
involved along with APIs and tools and
knowledge and memory and so on. So if
you describe a few characteristics of
agentic AI system then first one is goal
oriented planning you are not giving a
task such as tell me how many leaves I
have left okay two that is a simple task
you are giving here a complex task which
requires reasoning as well as multi-step
planning okay so the first
characteristic is goal oriented planning
second one is multi step reasoning then
autonomous decision making. See this
system will send an email it will send
uh the invite for the meeting. So all of
that it is doing in a autonomous way. It
is not saying okay go to outlook click
this button. It is actually doing that
work. It is performing actions for you.
Then it has access to tools. All these
tools okay outlook and HR management
system and so on. knowledge which can be
a PDF files, database and so on. It will
also have a memory. So when you are
having a conversation, it will have a
context, it will remember things. So
this is agentic chatboard. Okay. And any
AI system that you are building uh which
has uh autonomy, okay, it it has some
kind of agency where it can make certain
decisions and it can take certain
actions on its own. Plus it has
multi-step complex reasoning and
planning. That system is called agentic
AI. If I have to put it in a very simple
definition, agentic AI is an AI system
that can make decisions and take actions
on its own to achieve a goal without
being told exactly what to do at every
step. Here is a table summarizing the
capabilities of all three chatboards.
The rack based chatboard is reactive
which means more like Q&A. You ask a
question it responds but it doesn't have
tool usage, reasoning etc. The second
one tool augmented chatboard is reactive
and it also has access to tool but it
cannot reason plan and be proactive.
Whereas agentic AI system has all these
characteristics. There are many examples
of agentic AI systems. For example, AI
coding. If you're using lovable or
replet to create a react native app
similar to to-do east okay then see it
will first figure out what kind of
features to-do list has then it will do
see this kind of multi-step planning and
it will then write code execute the code
it will debug it fix issues again write
code execute it and so on okay so AI
coding being done through lovable,
rapit, etc. is an example of an agentic
AI system. The other one is travel
assistant. You might have a travel
assistant where you can say book a 7-day
trip to London in May where where the
weather is sunny for at least 4 days.
This is usually my criteria. You know,
whenever I go anywhere, I want the
weather to be sunny. And you have some
uh budget uh constraints. So now if you
have built agentic AI system, it will
first prepare a plan. You know how
deepsek creates that plan or any other
reasoning model will create a plan. So
it will first create a plan then it will
execute that plan step by step with the
help of all the tools and APIs that you
have integrated. In this particular
system, I might have integrated Acue
weather API for weather, Xedia API for
booking flights and so on. Here is a
small example of agentic AI system where
you are writing an agent to assist an
equity research analyst. They usually
write reports on companies. So here you
are giving a goal. You are not giving
the exit steps. Okay. Write a report on
Nvidia. You're also giving it access to
y finance tool reasoning tools. You can
provide duck duck go search and so on.
And here we are using agno framework.
You can just say pip install agno and
you can run this code. This code is
available in the video description
below. Now when I run this, see here I'm
using gemini as a model here. And what
it will do is it will look at this goal
and it will do multi-step reasoning
planning and then it will execute those
steps. So see here it is doing
reasoning. Okay, I need to gather this
much information. Here is my reasoning.
Then this is the step number two.
Compile a report. Uh you need to perform
all these steps right like getting a
company info, analyst recommendation,
company news. So it is doing all of that
step by step and generating this
comprehensive report which has some key
statistics for that company. Uh analyst
recommendation is one of the common
things you'll find in any uh equity
research report and recent news as well.
I did not say okay have news in the
bottom have analyst recommendation and
so on. It kind of figured it out on its
own. You don't have to always write the
code. You can use low code or no code
tools such as Zapier. Here they are
showing a cloud integration with their
Zapier MCP server and you have connected
all these tools and now you're saying
like what's on my calendar. It will
access the uh calendar tool and it will
tell you uh what do you have then you
can have some other task. See here it is
showing me the calendar items. Then you
can say can you tell me more about this
particular thing and it will call the
appropriate uh tool and it will tell you
l veo is a CEO at whatever company. Uh
these are simple tasks but you can have
complex tasks you can use a reasoning
model and you can uh design your MCP
server such that it can handle those
multi-step reasoning process. The other
tool I want to mention which is similar
to Zapier is
N8N where you can do drag and drop
essentially and see here let's say you
are doing create user form submission
and then it will trigger this AI agent
which has anthropic chat model it has
posgress chat memory it has access to
Jira Microsoft enter ID and so on and
then you can define these kind of
workflows see you can define these kind
of workflows and you can create rag
based system or tool augmented system or
even agentic AI. Okay. So agentic for
agentic AI this AI agent piece is going
to be important. The kind of prompt that
you write you can make it solve really
complex issues using the reasoning model
such as GPT40. You may have this
question what is the difference between
AI agent and agentic AI? Well, you see
this diagram. This is a diagram of an
agentic AI system in an ATN. And any
agentic AI system will have one or more
agents. So here you have this one agent.
You can have multiple agents. Okay. But
you need at least one AI agent with that
agentic complex reasoning behavior. The
second question you might have is what
is the difference between Gen AI? Okay,
Gen AI versus agentic AI. Well, Genai is
part of agentic AI. So you see this
Google Gemini model. So this model might
generate some text. It might write
email. It might summarize something. It
will have all those generation
capabilities and it is one of the
component in your agentic AI system. All
right. So generative AI is related to
generating new data, text, video, images
and so on. And you can have that as a
subcomponent within your agentic AI
system. If you want to see some real
project examples along with the code for
rag and two augmented AI systems then I
have two different videos. We have given
all the code. See the code for both the
projects is here. This is a cold email
generator and the second one is MCP for
that HR le management and also I would
suggest you read this building effective
agents guide by anthropic. They have
mentioned various design patterns. So
this is one workflow based design
pattern where let's say you have a
chatboard and the question might be
routed to a technical support team or a
sales team or some other team. In that
case you can have LLM as a router and
then individual LLMs each for sales team
technical team and so on. Uh everything
is hardwired through code here. So this
is a workflow. There is another example
of a workflow where uh you perform
individual tasks using these LLMs and
then you aggregate them. Okay. Uh here
is another example of orchestrator based
workers. This is also a workflow and
then comes agents. So for agents see
there will be this kind of loop. So
action feedback action feedback you know
multi-step reasoning multi-step
planning. Folks I hope now it is clear
what exactly is agentic AI. It's just a
jargon. The idea is really simple.
Please check video description for the
code and other resources.